# Needle-like-particle-dynamics-simulation-based-on-event-driven
The study of the dynamics of such fine needle-like molecules as microtubules, microfilaments, and carbon nanotubes in solution has been a challenging area due to the anisotropy of the particles and the requirements for computer performance and algorithms. Past studies have presented the effective tube theory of rotational diffusion coefficients of needle-like particles in entangled solutions satisfying Langevin equations and asymptotic forms of center-of-mass translational diffusion coefficients in complex models. In this paper, a simplified model is obtained using an array of point-like obstacles instead of topological constraints on the target particles by other needle particles in solution. The model uses an event-driven simulation algorithm to obtain collision equations in the center-of-mass coordinate system of the fine needle molecules, and a collision time interval formulation is derived from the spherical particle collision model. After comparing the interval Newton method proposed by Moore and Hansen, Hansen's improved interval Newton method is chosen to solve the collision equation numerically, and the energy conservation law is used to update the collision parameters, along with the main code of the program and sample runs under different parameters. In terms of simulation experiments, this paper first obtains the expression form of the average collision coefficient and then the average collision rate of the system by regressing the experimental data. After that, the paper verifies the validity of the effective tube theory in the simplified model and obtains the asymptotic form of the rotational diffusion coefficient from both theoretical and experimental aspects. Finally, two asymptotic forms of the center-of-mass diffusion coefficient in diluted and entangled solutions are obtained experimentally in this paper, and the results are compared and analyzed with those obtained in other models.
